README.asciidoc, before:

== Nagios Plugin JBossAS7 ==

This project provides a Nagios plugin for JBossAS 7.1.1 resource monitoring. The plugin uses HTTP-JSON based API (JBossAS REST Management API) to collect server statistics. The plugin currently supports JBoss standalone mode.

image::NagiosJBossAS7.jpg[]

Other plugins need additional +SAR+ or +WAR+ to be installed on the application server. Typically in Enterprise setups; it is sometimes not allowed to perform any additional installations on the target system.
The main advantage of this plugin is it leverages the +REST+ API of JBossAS. This allows us to monitor the application server without any additional configurations and installations.

=== Requirements: ===
* Nagios
* Python 2.7 onwards (with +requests+ module used for digest authentication)
* JBossAS 7.1.1-Final

=== Usage: ===

The check script supports following options. Details about monitoring different resources is available in respective sub-sections.

[source,python]
----
server:nagios-plugin-jbossas7 Aparna$ python check_jbossas7.py --help
Usage: check_jbossas7.py [options]

This Nagios plugin checks the health of JBossAS.

Options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -H HOST, --host=HOST  The hostname you want to connect to
  -P PORT, --port=PORT  The port JBoss management console is runnung on
  -u USER, --user=USER  The username you want to login as
  -p PASSWD, --pass=PASSWD
                        The password you want to use for that user
  -W WARNING, --warning=WARNING
                        The warning threshold we want to set
  -C CRITICAL, --critical=CRITICAL
                        The critical threshold we want to set
  -A ACTION, --action=ACTION
                        The action you want to take
  -D, --perf-data       Enable output of Nagios performance data
  -m MEMORY_POOL, --memorypool=MEMORY_POOL
                        The memory pool type
  -q QUEUE_NAME, --queuename=QUEUE_NAME
                        The queue name for which you want to retrieve queue
                        depth
  -d DATASOURCE_NAME, --datasource=DATASOURCE_NAME
                        The datasource name for which you want to retrieve
                        statistics
  -s DS_STAT_TYPE, --poolstats=DS_STAT_TYPE
                        The datasource pool statistics type
  -t THREAD_STAT_TYPE, --threadstats=THREAD_STAT_TYPE
                        The threading statistics type
----

Currently the plugin supports monitoring of following resources and sub-systems.

link:server.asciidoc[Server Status] :: Checks JBossAS status
link:memory.asciidoc[JVM Memory Utilization] :: Checks Heap, Non Heap, Old Gen, Eden Space, Perm Gen, and Code cache utilization
link:gc.asciidoc[Garbage Collection] :: Checks garbage collection rate
link:messaging.asciidoc[HornetQ Messaging] :: Checks message queue depths
link:datasource.asciidoc[DataSource Pool Usage] :: Checks datasource pool utilization
link:threading.asciidoc[Threading] :: Checks JVM process thread utilization


=== Licensing and Copyright: ===

The project is licensed under the http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0[Apache License, Version 2.0]

Commit message:

Add support for JBoss running in domain mode

README.asciidoc, after:

== Nagios Plugin JBossAS7 ==

This project provides a Nagios plugin for JBossAS 7.1.1 resource monitoring. The plugin uses HTTP-JSON based API (JBossAS REST Management API) to collect server statistics. The plugin currently supports JBoss standalone mode.

image::NagiosJBossAS7.jpg[]

Other plugins need additional +SAR+ or +WAR+ to be installed on the application server. Typically in Enterprise setups; it is sometimes not allowed to perform any additional installations on the target system.
The main advantage of this plugin is it leverages the +REST+ API of JBossAS. This allows us to monitor the application server without any additional configurations and installations.

=== Requirements: ===
* Nagios
* Python 2.7 onwards (with +requests+ module used for digest authentication)
* JBossAS 7.1.1-Final

=== Usage: ===

The check script supports following options. Details about monitoring different resources is available in respective sub-sections.

[source,python]
----
$ python ./check_jbossas7.py --help
Usage: check_jbossas7.py [options]

This Nagios plugin checks the health of JBossAS.

Options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -H HOST, --host=HOST  The hostname you want to connect to
  -P PORT, --port=PORT  The port JBoss management console is runnung on
  -u USER, --user=USER  The username you want to login as
  -p PASSWD, --pass=PASSWD
                        The password you want to use for that user
  -W WARNING, --warning=WARNING
                        The warning threshold we want to set
  -C CRITICAL, --critical=CRITICAL
                        The critical threshold we want to set
  -A ACTION, --action=ACTION
                        The action you want to take
  -D, --perf-data       Enable output of Nagios performance data
  -m MEMORY_POOL, --memorypool=MEMORY_POOL
                        The memory pool type
  -q QUEUE_NAME, --queuename=QUEUE_NAME
                        The queue name for which you want to retrieve queue
                        depth
  -d DATASOURCE_NAME, --datasource=DATASOURCE_NAME
                        The datasource name for which you want to retrieve
                        statistics
  -s DS_STAT_TYPE, --poolstats=DS_STAT_TYPE
                        The datasource pool statistics type
  -t THREAD_STAT_TYPE, --threadstats=THREAD_STAT_TYPE
                        The threading statistics type
  --jvmhost=JVM_HOST    The host running the JVM in domain mode
  --jvmas=JVM_SERVER    Name of the application server when running in domain
                        mode
----

Currently the plugin supports monitoring of following resources and sub-systems.

link:server.asciidoc[Server Status] :: Checks JBossAS status
link:memory.asciidoc[JVM Memory Utilization] :: Checks Heap, Non Heap, Old Gen, Eden Space, Perm Gen, and Code cache utilization
link:gc.asciidoc[Garbage Collection] :: Checks garbage collection rate
link:messaging.asciidoc[HornetQ Messaging] :: Checks message queue depths
link:datasource.asciidoc[DataSource Pool Usage] :: Checks datasource pool utilization
link:threading.asciidoc[Threading] :: Checks JVM process thread utilization


=== Licensing and Copyright: ===

The project is licensed under the http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0[Apache License, Version 2.0]
